# Teaching Philosophy

I believe that potential is infinite. When it comes to my students, it
doesn't matter where they come from, what class they were born into,
what privilege they have or they lack. The goal is growth, plain and
simple. And as a teacher, it's my job to be sure that not only are my
students proficient in the material they are tasked to cover, but that
they strive for the greatest of growth which they can manage. For some,
growth is second nature. And for those students, the responsibility is
to be sure that the requisite assistance and material is available for
them to strive. For others, sometimes growth takes a bit of work. For
these students, the responsibility I assume as their teacher is to go
beyond the call of duty, and to work unremittingly with those who
require the extra effort. This dichotomy I find is the great challenge
when it comes to education - maintaining the standard that every
individual student has an equality of opportunity for success, but
recognizing the truth that support should be allocated to those who most
need it. It is particularly difficult at the undergraduate level, when
for these college students, so much of their path has already been
defined. Nevertheless, our job as educators isn't to shy away from
challenges which we find difficult. As President Roosevelt said, "credit
belongs to the man who is actually in the arena... who knows great
enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause;
who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and
who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly..."
This vision of daring greatly is the vision I bring to the classroom.
And through my experience in the years which I have been teaching, great
enthusiasms, and great devotions, coupled with logical and intelligent
approach, brings forth the goals which we dare greatly to realize. 

# Community Philosophy

As members of a community, I wholeheartedly believe that it is our
responsibility to be active proponents for education at all stages of
individual development. This is why for the first three years of my PhD
work, I worked with the School of Medicine to teach the chemistry
portions of their diversity outreach programs. It was an amazing
opportunity to work with these middle and high school level kids who
were so passionate about taking every opportunity to grow. Working with
these students, showing them the chemistry of thelife inside us, and the
world around us was a pleasure and an honor.

# Technology

The world of tomorrow is technological. It's undeniable that the
workforce of the next generation will require the skills necessary to
leverage the power of technology to drive innovation and discovery for
the 21st century economy. This is particularly true in the field of
chemistry, where entire fields of computational chemistry, materials
informatics, augmented organic chemistry, et alia, now are inextricably
intertwined with computer science. As such, it is imperative that
students be trained in the 21st century data-driven methods which
undergird the foundation of research tomorrow.