# Research

## UMKC

Developed micro- and nanoscale materials for application in clean energy
systems, photocatalysis, water photolysis, physical adsorption, and
microwave absorption. Dissertation research focused on understanding and
utilizing the bulk dielectric and magnetic field properties of materials
so to induce interaction with GHz-range electromagnetic radiation.
Utilized and established a wide variety of synthesis methodologies to
generate materials such as pure and perturbated -oxides (Titanium,
Aluminum, Silicon, Zirconium, et alia), -sulfides (Copper, Copper-Iron,
Cobalt, et alia), -phosphides (Iron, Cobalt), conductive polymers,
graphitic carbon nitrides, polyoxometalates, and metal-organic
frameworks, through fabrication processes such as
solvothermal/hydrothermal methods and PECVD. Developed expertise in a
broad array of instrumentation techniques, such as Complex Permittivity
and Permeability Network Analysis, Polarized Light Microscopy, UV-Vis
Spectroscopy, Raman Vibrational Spectroscopy, SEM/EDX, TEM, XPS, XRD,
BET, FTIR, ESR, NMR/SSNMR, PALS, et alia, for materials characterization
and analysis. Developed computational programs which utilized
data-driven methods so to analyze experimental data sets. Built the
libRL library, which is an open-source Python library
(https://github.com/1mikegrn/libRL-package) used for state-of-the-art
microwave absorption characterization. Also built the CompGen library,
which is a Python library that uses personally-developed materials
models to accurately predict multi-system composite performance.
Established laboratory protocols for the treatment and disposal of
hazardous chemical waste in accordance with EH&S, EPA, and the State of
Missouri guidelines. Research supported by the National Science
Foundation under NSF grant 1609061, and affiliated/collaborated with The
Environmental Protection Agency, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory,
the Chinese Academy of Sciences, et alia.
					
## UIdaho
 
Studied the properties of volatile elements that were the result of
nuclear fission. Research focused on the physical adsorption of volatile
radionuclei onto various materials synthesized in lab, such as hollow
carbon nano-polyhedrons and metal-organic frameworks. Work involved
theoretical studies of molecular compounds, synthesis of compounds,
analysis (GC/MS, BET, XRD, Raman, UV-Vis, et alia), the engineering and
construction of testing apparatuses and miscellaneous devices for
general laboratory use, and composition of written material for
publication. Research was conducted in conjuncture with the US
Department of Energy and the Idaho National Laboratory.
					

# Teaching

Prepared and presented in-depth chemistry material for undergraduate 
collegiate studies, and supervised in-lab experimental procedures.
Participated in experimental preparation, which included the maintenance
of legacy laboratory equipment such as GC, distillation, UV-Vis, Bomb
Calorimeter, Oscilloscope, and FTIR equipment. Worked with students to
update laboratory procedures, including but not limited to writing
software to automate experimental analysis and revamping experimental
procedures. Frequently interacted with students via small group and
one-on-one tutoring on a weekly basis. Oversaw the fair, responsible
grading for submitted laboratory coursework.				

# Community

Lectured on chemistry topics for both the Saturday Academy and Summer
Scholars diversity outreach programs offered through the University of
Missouri School of Medicine in Kansas City, MO. For Saturday Academy,
responsibilities consisted of designing and presenting chemistry
lectures over the weekends to enrolled middle and high school students
from the Kansas City area who had the desire to obtain more exposure to
math and science in their pre-collegiate education. Topics covered
therein included General Chemistry, Environmental Chemistry, Organic
Chemistry, and Physical Chemistry. The summer scholars outreach program
consisted of an intensive two-week lecture series for Kansas City area
high school seniors, focusing on Organic Chemistry fundamentals, Organic
Chemistry Reactions, and Biochemistry.				